Here are a few guidelines to think about so you can plan and
implement building trust with your team.
Have clear and consistent goals.
Always know where you're going, always know the big vision,
the projects, and the daily tasks.
I'll have more on that later.
Be open, fair, and listen.
This builds trust and shows compassion for your teammates.
Be decisive.
Wishy-washy is poor leadership.
Would you want to see the President of the United
States in a very serious situation say, gee,
I don't know what we should do here?
No, you don't.
Admit mistakes.
This shows you are human because you will make mistakes and
even if it is not your mistake per se, take one for the team.
They are your team.
Your responsibility.
This really builds trust.
Respect the opinions of others.
Always listen.
Now it doesn't mean you have to agree, but you do have to listen.
Then be decisive and make a decision and explain your reasons and
why you've chosen your path so that they won't feel like their
opinion or their voice wasn't heard.
Create a climate that allows empowerment.
Give your team enough tools and decision-making
freedom so they can feel empowered.
When you don't feel empowered,
you really don't feel like doing much or trying that hard,
typically.
When you feel empowered, you feel like you can do anything.
Now you can't be robotic or stiff or just go through
the motions of this checklist.
You must be sincere, truly and genuinely sincere.
Now, that's how leaders can build trust in you.
Now let's explore how you can promote team trust.
How leaders build team trust in a particular trust
among the team members themselves.
First, support all team members, not just one or two,
otherwise this could really change the dynamics of the team's productivity.
Second,
take responsibility for team actions and part of that
means taking responsibility for mistakes.
So follow this guideline.
When the team screws up, you take the hit.
When the team hits the project out of the ballpark,
you give them all of the credit.
You have just doubled the trust bank.
Next, give credit to team members.
Always reinforce a good job or even a good try,
even if things don't work out the way you want.
Everyone on the team may be at different levels of knowledge,
skills, and what you expect of them, so understand that.
Next, be sensitive to the team's needs.
Sometimes you can tell when things just aren't right with someone.
Maybe talk with them, but be sure it's done one on one in some privacy,
too and find out how you can help.
You never know what might be bothering someone.
Next, create trust between team members.
So not only is it important for your team to trust you,
it is also imperative that your team trusts each other.
Address issues directly.
Share relevant information.
Follow through on commitments and give early notice when you can't,
and say no when you mean no, and share what you know and what you don't know.
And here's a tip.
The first step in building trust is to display trust; trust them.
One way to do this is to make a generous interpretation when someone
else makes a mistake or disappoints you in some way.
People who will always jump to the worse conclusion about others'
competence and motivation inspire caution or suspicion,
not trust.
Give them the benefit of the doubt.
Okay, now let's look at what qualities in general you will need to be a good leader.